Jazz Inside Magazine (CD Review of "3/4 A Lot of the Time, A Tribute to Bill Evans", December 2010) Amplified jazz guitar is at once a common and a unique sound. It's at once universal and particular, with each guitar and each guitarist. The best jazz guitarists are easily named in the hearing. Add Rob Lanter to that if not one in a million, at least one in ten unique and special guitarists with a sound all their own. It's a courageous act to present an offering like Lanter's "3/4 A Lot of the Time, A Tribute to Bill Evans". With Lanter's solo guitar tracks, such as "My Foolish Heart", "Waltz For Debbie", "Very Early", and "Triste", it's all clear as a bell and wonderfully melodic, whether in lines or chord melodies.Lanter delivers too as an accompanist to Judy Butterfield whose vocals on "My Romance" and "Where Do You Start" are a perfect match for Lanter's chording and solos. Yes, a lot of the time jazz guitarists yield to the mundane and mediocre. Not so with Lanter who not just a lot of the time, but all the time on this recording not only hits his mark but transcends it. Reviewed by Bob Gish for Jazz Inside magazine.

Just Jazz Guitar Magazine (CD Review of "Thank You Joe, A Tribute to Joe Pass", November 2006) While attending Berklee College of Music, Rob had the privilege of seeing Joe Pass play. This was a turning point in Rob's musical focus and gave him direction to continue pursuing solo guitar playing. In the liner notes, Rob mentions that things "came together "almost overnight for his solo playing (years later). Regardless of when it came together for Rob Lanter, he's got it. Rob covers 9 standards and provides 2 originals on "Thank You Joe". He has a nice sense of time often starting rubato and moving into time seamlessly. Rob reharmonizes the tunes with each pass, adding more harmony or making the harmony more sparse, also adding bass lines and improv. His sense of space and time are solid and he presents the compositions fully. Improv ideas are tasteful and add flash to each song. Anyone who plays solo jazz guitar knows what a juggling act it can be to keep a tune fresh, adding different parts and improvising as you play. Rob does this beautifully. Standards include Stella, God Bless the Child (which Rob also sings nicely on), Another You, Body and Soul, Miss Jones, Dolphin Dance and Stolen Moments. Amazing Grace and two originals also round out the disc. Amazing Grace has some nice volume swells, which serve the tune beautifully. Rob's originals are great compositions in their own rights. Nostalgia in Paradise has a wonderful melody and very rhythmic sense. Deep Down Inside has a nice gospel feel to it and works great as a solo piece.Rob Lanter has pulled together his solo guitar chops (a skill that many guitarists only dream about) and preserved his tribute to Joe Pass for us on CD. While we all thank Joe Pass for his influence, thanks go to Rob Lanter as well for a great CD. Reviewed by Eric Elias for Just Jazz Guitar magazine.

Joe Giglio - Jazz guitarist, Recording artist (October 2010, www.joegiglio.com) I happily listened to your CD, "3/4 Most of the Time, A Tribute to Bill Evans", with much focus and really enjoyed it. On it's own it is a great program of music, expertly performed 